# dfUTFT
The dfUTFTFork is a fork of the UTFT Library by Henning Karlsen. The original UTFT library is well written and works with a number of TFT drivers. The UFTF library has a number of limitations when creating fonts. For example, with the original UTFT library, all fonts MUST have a character width that is dividable by 8 (i.e. 8, 16, and 24 etc...). You have 2 choices to create fonts; 1, by hand or 2 with the online Font Maker, which converts an image into a font array. Both, are not easy to do and are time consuming.

So I set out to modify the UTFT library to with work with The Dot Factory. “The Dot Factory is a small, GPL, open source tool intended to generate the required C language information to store many fonts and images, as efficiently as possible, on a microcontroller”. Basicly, if you have the font installed on your window PC, you can create a Font to use with the UFTF library.

Important Notes

*  The dfTFTFork library can co-exist with existing UTFT fonts. You just call different functions.
*  I have tested the library with a number of fonts generated by The Dot Factory. This doc provides
   instructions on how to create the fonts. You must follow these directions. Don’t worry, its easy
*  The Library was tested on the Sain Smart 2.8 TFT W/ ILI9325 driver running in 16 bit mode. I
   have not tested on other TFTs
*  The smallest font I have tested with was Aerial 8pt, which is very small. The width of the
   characters should be no smaller than 16 bits wide (2 bytes). That’s really small.
*  The largest font I tested with was 5 bytes wide (48pt font).
*  Rotating font is not supported
